docs: update agent sections around auto-auth, caching, and templating (#15195)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/agent/caching/persistent-caches/index.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Agent Persistent Caching
description: Vault Agent Caching
---

# Vault Agent Persistent Caching

Vault Agent can restore tokens and leases from a persistent cache file created
by a previous Vault Agent process. The persistent cache is a BoltDB file that
includes tuples encrypted by a generated encryption key. The encrypted tuples
include the Vault token used to retrieve secrets, leases for tokens/secrets, and
secret values.

-> **Note:** Vault Agent Persistent Caching will only restore _leased_
secrets. Secrets that are not renewable, such as KV v2, will not be persisted.

> In order to use Vault Agent persistent cache, auto-auth must be used. During the
> restoration of the cache, Vault Agent will pre-populate auto-auth with the
> persisted token. This token is required to renew restored leases. If the token
> has expired, the cached leases will be evicted and secrets will need to be
> retrieved from Vault.

Reviewer: This paragraph goes quite into depth on the implementation details, but I think the user only needs to know the auto-auth requirement and the behaviour when the token's expired. The suggestion below is a crude attempt at simplifying it down to those points.

```suggestion
In order to use Vault Agent persistent cache, auto-auth must be used. If the
auto-auth token has expired by the time the cache is restored, the cache will
be invalidated and secrets will need to be re-fetched from Vault.
```

Author: I like this, updated!

If Vault Agent templating is enabled alongside of the persistent cache, Vault
Agent will automatically route templating requests through the cache. This
ensures template requests are cached and restored properly.

> -> **Note** Vault Agent persistent cache is currently supported in a Kubernetes
> environment.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to mention that it's _only_ kubernetes here?

```suggestion
-> **Note** Vault Agent persistent cache is currently supported only in a Kubernetes
environment.
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Agent Persistent Caching
description: Vault Agent Caching
---

# Vault Agent Persistent Caching

Vault Agent can restore tokens and leases from a persistent cache file created
by a previous Vault Agent process. The persistent cache is a BoltDB file that
includes tuples encrypted by a generated encryption key. The encrypted tuples
include the Vault token used to retrieve secrets, leases for tokens/secrets, and
secret values.

> -> **Note:** Vault Agent Caching persistent cache will only restore _leased_

Reviewer 3: For the note, perhaps just call out the feature as Vault Agent Persistent Caching or Persistent Caching.

Author: Addressed in [eb64fb9](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/15195/commits/eb64fb945c55953276443c88fcc87f1a662f00a9)

secrets. Secrets that are not renewable, such as KV v2, will not be persisted.

In order to use Vault Agent persistent cache, auto-auth must be used. During the
restoration of the cache, Vault Agent will pre-populate auto-auth with the
persisted token. This token is required to renew restored leases. If the token
has expired, the cached leases will be evicted and secrets will need to be
retrieved from Vault.

If Vault Agent templating is enabled alongside of the persistent cache, Vault
Agent will automatically route templating requests through the cache. This
ensures template requests are cached and restored properly.

> At the time of this writing, Vault Agent persistent cache is only supported in a

Author: Addressed in [eb64fb9](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/15195/commits/eb64fb945c55953276443c88fcc87f1a662f00a9)

Kubernetes environment. In the future the persistent cache will be expanded to
include other environments.

## Vault Agent Persistent Cache Types

Please see the sidebar for available types and their usage/configuration.

## Persistent Cache Example Configuration

> An example configuration, with very contrived values, follows:

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:
Here is an example of a persistent cache configuration.

Author: Addressed in [eb64fb9](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/pull/15195/commits/eb64fb945c55953276443c88fcc87f1a662f00a9)
